[Jira] Documentation for Jira connector (#574)
elastic/connectors-python: docs/DEVELOPING.md

  - `EC, TP`
  - `*`

##### `ssl_enabled`

Whether SSL verification will be enabled. Default value is `False`.

##### `ssl_ca`

Content of SSL certificate. Note: In case of ssl_enabled is `False`, keep `ssl_ca` field empty. Example certificate:

  - ```
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    MIID+jCCAuKgAwIBAgIGAJJMzlxLMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAMHoxCzAJBgNVBAYT
    ...
    7RhLQyWn2u00L7/9Omw=
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ```

##### `retry_count`

The number of retry attempts after failed request to Jira. Default value is `3`.

##### `concurrent_downloads`

The number of concurrent downloads for fetching the attachment content. This speeds up the content extraction of attachments. Defaults to `100`.

#### Content Extraction

The connector uses the Elastic ingest attachment processor plugin for extracting file contents. The ingest attachment processor extracts files by using the Apache text extraction library Tika. Supported file types eligible for extraction can be found as `TIKA_SUPPORTED_FILETYPES` in [utils.py](../connectors/utils.py) file.

### Documents and Sync

The connector indexes following items into the Elastic Search index:

> - Projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Projects**
```

  - Includes metadata such as description, project key, project type, lead name, etc.

> - Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Issues**
```

  - All types of issues including Task, Bug, Sub-task, Enhancement, Story, etc.
  - Includes metadata such as issue type, parent issue details, fix versions, affected versions, resolution, attachments, comments, sub-task details, priority, custom fields, etc.

> - Attachments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Attachments**
```

> **Note:** Archieved projects and issues won't be indexed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Archived projects and issues are not indexed.
```

- [PostgreSQL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/connectors-postgresql.html)
- [S3](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/connectors-s3.html)

## Jira Connector

The [Elastic Jira connector](../connectors/sources/jira.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

### Availability and prerequisites

> This connector is available as a **connector client** from the **Python connectors framework**. To use this connector, satisfy all [connector client requirements](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/build-connector.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This connector is available as a **connector client** from the **Python connectors framework**. This connector is in **beta** and is subject to change. To use this connector, satisfy all [connector client requirements](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/build-connector.html).
```

This connector is in **beta** and is subject to change. The design and code is less mature than official GA features and is being provided as-is with no warranties. Beta features are not subject to the support SLA of official GA features.

### Usage

To use this connector as a **connector client**, use the **build a connector** workflow. See [Connector clients and frameworks](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/build-connector.html).

For additional operations, see [Usage](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/connectors-usage.html).

### Compatibility

> Jira versions 7 or later are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks.

Reviewer 2: It will be more clear if we rephrase the compatibility section to be something like:

Jira Cloud or Jira Server/Data Center versions 7 or later are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks.

> ### Setup and basic usage

Reviewer: We can just call this Section `### Configuration` per the released docs format and remove the sub-steps 1 and 2.

> Complete the following steps to deploy the connector:
> 
> 1. [Gather Jira details](#gather-jira-details)
> 2. [Configure Jira connector](#configure-jira-connector)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #### Gather Jira details
> 
> Collect the information that is required to connect to your Jira instance:
> 
> - The domain where Jira is hosted.
> - Username for Jira server or account email for Jira cloud.
> - Password for Jira server or API Token for Jira cloud.
> - Project Keys to fetch the data from Jira server or cloud.
> - SSL certificate for a secure connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: We can remove this per the released docs format. All this information is contained in the configuration fields section. However, if any future docs have details here that pertain to the third-party data source, this should go in the **Usage** section.

#### Configure Jira connector

The following configuration fields need to be provided for setting up the connector:

##### `data_source`

> Dropdown to determine Jira platform type. `Jira Cloud` if Jira cloud and `Jira Server` if Jira server. Default value is `Jira Cloud`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dropdown to determine Jira platform type: `Jira Cloud` or `Jira Server`. Default value is `Jira Cloud`.
```

> Dropdown to determine Jira platform type. `Jira Cloud` if Jira cloud and `Jira Server` if Jira server. Default value is `Jira Cloud`.

Reviewer 2: Do we support Jira Data Center in addition to Jira Server?  If so, let's change all our "Jira Server" references to "Jira Server/Data Center".

Author: No, the connector supports Jira Cloud and Jira Server only.

##### `username`

The username of the account for Jira server.

##### `password`

The password of the account to be used for Jira server.

##### `account_email`

The account email for Jira cloud.

##### `api_token`

The API Token to authenticate with Jira cloud.

##### `jira_url`

The domain where Jira is hosted. Examples:

  - `https://192.158.1.38:8080/`
  - `https://test_user.atlassian.net/`

> ##### `projects`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### `projects_keys`
```

Double check this

> ##### `projects`

Reviewer 2: Can we specify what type of objects/entities are supported by this connector? Does it fetch _everything_ within a project including issues, comments, attachments, linked issues, components, fix/affected versions, watchers, etc..?

In general, I think every connector documentation should have a dedicated section that lists the objects/entities we support (something to add to our "template") 😄  cc: @leemthompo @danajuratoni

Author: Since, We've finalized an approach to index everything we get from the Atlassian API Response. Yes, this connector supports all entities that API is providing.

Reviewer: > I think every connector documentation should have a dedicated section that lists the objects/entities we support (something to add to our "template") 

This information should go in a **Documents and syncs** subheading which describes what gets synced and, if helpful, what _doesn't_ get synced. 😊

Author: @leemthompo I've added a section `Documents and Sync` to include this information.

> Comma separated `Project Keys` to fetch the data from Jira server or cloud. Jira connector will fetch data from all projects present in the configured `project keys`, if the value is `*`. Default value is `*`. Examples:

Reviewer: We have `projects`, `Project Keys`, and `project keys` here. Which one is correct?

Reviewer 2: Providing a link to what project key means will be helpful: https://support.atlassian.com/jira-software-cloud/docs/what-is-an-issue/#Workingwithissues-Projectkeys

Author: @leemthompo `projects` is just a configuration parameter used in the connector code. User will see a label i.e. `Jira Project Keys` and will configure `project keys`. However, i'll provide a link for `project key` as @ppf2 suggested.

Reviewer: OK but let's not confuse the reader by enclosing everything in backticks here.  :)

### Compatibility

> Jira Cloud or Jira Server versions 7 or later are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks.

Reviewer 2: It might also be helpful to explicitly call out that Data Center editions are not currently supported.  @danajuratoni WDYT?

Author: @ppf2 Yes, Thanks. I've called it out explicitly.

Author: > @ppf2 Yes, Thanks. I've called it out explicitly.

@ppf2 Did you get a chance to look at this change?

The connector uses the Elastic ingest attachment processor plugin for extracting file contents. The ingest attachment processor extracts files by using the Apache text extraction library Tika. Supported file types eligible for extraction can be found as `TIKA_SUPPORTED_FILETYPES` in [utils.py](../connectors/utils.py) file.

### Documents and Sync

> The connector indexes following items into the Elastic Search index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector syncs the following objects and entities:
```

Collect the information that is required to connect to your Jira instance:

- The server host url where Jira is hosted.
- Username for the Jira server or service account for the Jira cloud.
- Password for the Jira server or API key for the Jira cloud.
- Project Keys to fetch the data from Jira server or cloud.
- SSL certificate for a secure connection

#### Configure Jira connector

The following configuration fields need to be provided for setting up the connector:

##### `is_cloud`

Flag to determine the Jira platform type. `True` if Jira cloud and `False` if Jira server. Default value is `True`.

##### `username`

The username of the account for Jira server. Default value is `admin`.

##### `password`

The password of the account to be used for the Jira server. Default value is `changeme`.

##### `service_account_id`

The service account for the Jira cloud. Default value is `me@example.com`.

##### `api_token`

The API key to authenticate with Jira cloud. Default value is `abc#123`.

##### `host_url`

The server host url where the Jira is hosted. Default value is `http://127.0.0.1:8080`. Examples:

  - `https://192.158.1.38:8080/`
  - `https://test_user.atlassian.net/`

> #### `projects`

Reviewer 3: Please make this parameter header inline with the others (have the same level)

ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [configure Azure Blob Storage connector](#configure-azure-blob-storage-connector)

## Jira Connector

The [Elastic Jira connector](../connectors/sources/jira.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

### Availability and prerequisites

⚠️ _Currently, this connector is available in **beta** starting in 8.8_.
Features in beta are subject to change and are not covered by the service level agreement (SLA) of features that have reached general availability (GA).

Elastic versions 8.6.0+ are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks. Your deployment must include the Elasticsearch, Kibana, and Enterprise Search services.

### Setup and basic usage

Complete the following steps to deploy the connector:

1. [Gather Jira details](#gather-jira-details)
2. [Configure Jira connector](#configure-jira-connector)

#### Gather Jira details

Collect the information that is required to connect to your Jira instance:

- The server host url where the Jira is hosted.

> - The username the connector will use to log in to the Jira server or the service account for the Jira cloud.

Author: Username is just for Jira server. Need to mention `service account` for Jira cloud.

> - The password the connector will use to log in to the Jira server or the API key for the Jira cloud.

Author: Password is used for Jira server. Need to mention `API key` for Jira cloud.

- SSL certificate if you want to establish secured connections.

> #### Configure Jira connector

Reviewer 3: Updated the TDD to reflect the latest update, that Project Keys should be a configurable parameter. AFAIK we can update the doc right away and add it in an enhancement.

Author: Sure, I will update the TDD and doc with accommodating a new configuration parameter `projects`.

Reviewer 3: Thank you!

The following configuration fields need to be provided for setting up the connector:

##### `is_cloud`

Flag to determine the Jira platform type. True if Jira cloud and False if Jira server. Default value is `True`.

##### `username`

> The username of the account for Jira server. Default value is `admin`.

Author: Here, `username` is just used for Jira server. User will configure `service account` for Jira cloud, so I've already mentioned the same in "Gather Jira details".

##### `password`

> The password of the account to be used for the Jira server. Default value is `changeme`.

Author: `Password` is used for Jira server only. `API key` is responsible for authenticating to Jira cloud.

    i7TWD9GKQO8SBmAxhjCDifOxVBokoxYrNdzESl0LXvnzEadeZTd9BfUtTaBHhx6t
    njqqCPrbTY+3jAbZFd4RiERPnhLVKMytw5ot506BhPrUtpr2lusbN5svNXjuLeea
    MMUCAwEAAaOBoDCBnTATBgNVHSMEDDAKgAhOatpLwvJFqjAdBgNVHSUEFjAUBggr
    BgEFBQcDAQYIKwYBBQUHAwIwVAYDVR0RBE0wS4E+UHJvZmlsZVVVSUQ6QXBwU3J2
    MDEtQkFTRS05MDkzMzJjMC1iNmFiLTQ2OTMtYWI5NC01Mjc1ZDI1MmFmNDiCCWxv
    Y2FsaG9zdDARBgNVHQ4ECgQITzqhA5sO8O4wDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQADggEBAKR0
    gY/BM69S6BDyWp5dxcpmZ9FS783FBbdUXjVtTkQno+oYURDrhCdsfTLYtqUlP4J4
    CHoskP+MwJjRIoKhPVQMv14Q4VC2J9coYXnePhFjE+6MaZbTjq9WaekGrpKkMaQA
    iQt5b67jo7y63CZKIo9yBvs7sxODQzDn3wZwyux2vPegXSaTHR/rop/s/mPk3YTS
    hQprs/IVtPoWU4/TsDN3gIlrAYGbcs29CAt5q9MfzkMmKsuDkTZD0ry42VjxjAmk
    xw23l/k8RoD1wRWaDVbgpjwSzt+kl+vJE/ip2w3h69eEZ9wbo6scRO5lCO2JM4Pr
    7RhLQyWn2u00L7/9Omw=
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ```

##### `enable_content_extraction`

Whether the connector should extract the content from Jira attachment. Default value is `True` i.e. the connector will try to extract file contents.

##### `retry_count`

The number of retry attempts after failed request to the Jira. Default value is `3`.

##### `concurrent_downloads`

> The number of concurrent downloads for fetching the attachment content. Defaults to `50`.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we could provide some more info, why this is useful? Speed-up etc.

The password of the account to be used for the Jira server. Default value is `changeme`.

##### `service_account_id`

The service account for the Jira cloud. Default value is `me@example.com`.

##### `api_token`

The API key to authenticate with Jira cloud. Default value is `abc#123`.

##### `host_url`

The server host url where the Jira is hosted. Default value is `http://127.0.0.1:8080`. Examples:

  - `https://192.158.1.38:8080/`
  - `https://test_user.atlassian.net/`

##### `projects`

Comma separated `Project Keys` to fetch the data from Jira server or cloud. Default value is `*` i.e. fetches the data of all projects. Examples:

  - `EC, TP`

##### `ssl_enabled`

Whether SSL verification will be enabled. Default value is `False`.

##### `ssl_ca`

Content of SSL certificate. Note: In case of ssl_enabled is `False`, keep `ssl_ca` field empty. Example certificate:

  - ```
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    MIID+jCCAuKgAwIBAgIGAJJMzlxLMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAMHoxCzAJBgNVBAYT
    ...
    7RhLQyWn2u00L7/9Omw=
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ```

##### `retry_count`

The number of retry attempts after failed request to the Jira. Default value is `3`.

##### `concurrent_downloads`

> The number of concurrent downloads for fetching the attachment content. This speeds up the content extraction of attachments. Defaults to `50`.

Reviewer 5: I believe this was just bumped to 100 in another PR.

Author: Yes, let me update it.

##### `enable_content_extraction`

> Whether the connector should extract the content from Jira attachment. Default value is `True` i.e. the connector will try to extract file contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether the connector should extract content from a Jira attachment. Default value is `True` i.e. the connector will try to extract file contents.
```

ℹ️ Default values exist for end-to-end testing only.

> ℹ️ The values for these fields need to be provided in `get_default_configuration` method of [jira.py](../connectors/sources/jira.py) file before running the connector for the first time. Further, these can be changed from UI editor which will appear on the UI once the first successful connection is made.

Reviewer 5: I believe these sections were recently removed from all docs, because this is controlled through a separate mechanism
